Staff Scientist (f/m/x) in Computational Biology
102868

Full time
39 hrs./week

Neuherberg near Munich

Partial Home Office possible

At Helmholtz Munich, we develop groundbreaking solutions for a healthier society in a rapidly changing world. We believe that diverse perspectives drive innovation. Through strong partnerships, we accelerate the transfer of new ideas from the lab to real-life applications, improving lives.

The at the Computational Health Center is internationally recognized for pioneering methods in machine learning, single-cell analysis, and computational modeling of complex biological systems. Our lab is a vibrant interdisciplinary environment that combines fundamental methodological development with translational collaborations in biomedicine.

To further strengthen project work, mentoring, and scientific coordination across our team, we are seeking an outstanding and motivated Staff Scientist (f/m/x).

This long-term role is ideal for a researcher who thrives at the interface of computation and biology, enjoys mentoring and wishes to shape scientific strategy within an internationally leading research group.

Your role
Drive and support the scientific design, analysis, and interpretation of computational and single-cell biology projects
Ensure high methodological standards across the lab, including reproducibility, robust workflows, and shared best practices
Contribute to collaborative research initiatives & grants and help shape the lab’s scientific strategy
Provide mentoring and guidance to PhD students and postdocs as part of an integrated research environment
Your profile
PhD in computational biology, bioinformatics, computer science, mathematics, biomedical sciences, or a related field
Strong expertise in machine learning, AI, and computational data analysis
Solid understanding of biological and biomedical concepts, particularly in genomics, transcriptomics, or single-cell technologies
Proven experience supervising, mentoring, or coordinating interdisciplinary research teams
Practical experience with modern scientific computing frameworks (e.g., PyTorch, JAX, scikit-learn) and reproducible workflow tools
Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills, strong communication abilities, and a collaborative mindset
If you fulfill all the requirements, you may be eligible for a salary grade of up to E 13. Social benefits are based on the Collective Wage Agreement for Public-Sector Employees (TVöD). The position has an (initial) fixed term of 3 years but may be extended under certain circumstances.

Our Offer
Work at the cutting edge of computational biomedicine within one of the largest and most renowned AI-for-biology labs in Europe.
An inspiring, international, and highly collaborative research environment with access to exceptional datasets, infrastructure, and interdisciplinary expertise.
Opportunities for long-term career development as a staff scientist, including scientific training, leadership development, and involvement in strategic projects.
A strong commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion.
Benefits
Career Development: Postdoc program, scientific training & career center with tailored offers
Scientific Resources: State-of-the-art infrastruture and Core Facilities
Recreation: 30 days annual leave, flexi days, plus public holidays
International Staff Service: Support with the relocation and integration process in Germany
Health Promotion: Sports, company doctor, mental health initiatives
Interested in applying?
If you have any questions, feel free to contact Anna Sacher, +498931872926, who will be happy to help.

Our recruiting is decentralized - your application will be reviewed directly by the specialist department in which you could work in the future.

Please send your application only via our online application tool and with the following documents:

CV
Contact details for at least two referees
Cover letter
Degrees/Diplomas/Certificates
References from recent employers
If you have obtained a university degree abroad, we will require further documents from you regarding the comparability of your degree by the time you start work at the latest.

The documents are only required upon recruitment and can be submitted at a later date.

We are committed to promoting a culture of diversity and welcome applications from talented people regardless of gender, cultural background, nationality, ethnicity, sexual identity, physical abilities, religion or age. Qualified applicants with physical disabilities will be given preference.

Our commitment
Helmholtz Munich
Deutsches Forschungszentrum für Gesundheit und Umwelt (GmbH)
Institute of Computational Biology
Ingolstädter Landstraße 1
85764 Neuherberg
