Logo von Octapharma
Octapharma
3,3
Scientist R&D Molecular Design (m/f/d)

Heidelberg

Auf Website des Arbeitgebers bewerben



Auf Website des Arbeitgebers bewerben
Deine Qualifikationen für diesen Job

Bearbeiten
Master
Doktorat
Forschungserfahrung
Hast du auch diese Qualifikationen?

X
Datenanalyse

X
Scripting
Job ID: 61464
Location: Heidelberg, DE
Job Level: Professionals
Job Category: Research and Development
Employment Type: Permanent position
Career Level:
Become part of a vital chain and contribute to our common goal of making people’s lives better. Octapharma is one of the largest human protein manufacturers in the world, developing and producing medicines sourced from human plasma and human cell lines. We are a privately-owned company, where the warmth of family meets the scale of a global organisation.


Octapharma Biopharmaceuticals GmbH with more than 200 employees is a subsidiary of the Octapharma group founded in 1997 and successfully expanding. Our core business is the development of recombinant proteins produced in human cell lines for therapeutic use in humans. We strive for effective treatments with an improved tolerability and convenience for our patients.


Join us in shaping our vision to provide new health solutions advancing human life.


We are looking for a highly skilled and motivated Scientist (m/f/d) to join the Molecular Design unit in the Research & Development Department at Octapharma Biopharmaceuticals. The successful applicant will take on a multifaceted role in a collaborative, multi-disciplinary team focusing on biologics drug discovery in the fields of Immunology and Hematology. The scientist will contribute to the identification and optimization of therapeutic candidates by leveraging advanced phage display technologies and Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS) workflows.

Key activities will include designing and constructing display libraries, performing selection, integrating NGS for diversity analysis, conducting literature-based exploration of target molecule biology, and collaborating with cross-functional teams to drive innovative solutions and ensure scientific excellence throughout the discovery process.


Your Main Tasks and Responsibilities
Design and construct phage display libraries (antibody fragments, peptides, or alternative scaffolds) for therapeutic discovery campaigns
Perform selection and screening of phage libraries using biopanning and enrichment strategies
Integrate Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS) workflows for library quality control, diversity assessment, and hit identification
Analyze sequencing and experimental data to monitor enrichment and guide candidate optimization
Develop and optimize directed evolution strategies to improve affinity, stability, and developability
Collaborate closely with protein engineering, computational biology, and project teams; coordinate external lead discovery activities
Prepare scientific reports and documentation; present findings in project and departmental meetings
Stay informed about the latest scientific developments and apply relevant insights to ongoing projects

Your Expertise and Ideal Skill Set
Ph.D. (preferred) in Molecular Biology, Biochemistry, Immunology, or related field or M.Sc. with at least 3 years relevant professional experience
Hands-on experience with phage display platforms and antibody/peptide selection techniques
Strong knowledge of library design and construction, molecular cloning, and expression systems (bacterial, yeast, mammalian)
Proficiency in NGS workflows for diversity analysis and hit tracking, familiarity with bioinformatics tools for sequence analysis
Excellent scientific research, data analysis, and interpretation skills
Excellent communication skills in English; German knowledge is a plus
Strong problem-solving ability, attention to detail, and capacity to work independently and collaboratively in a fast-paced environment

Additional valued Qualifications
Understanding of antibody structure-function relationships and engineering strategies
Experience with automation and high-throughput screening
Programming or scripting experience for data analysis
Familiarity with other display technologies (e.g., yeast, mammalian)

Thrive with us
A permanent position in full-time (40 hrs./week) in a dynamically growing company
A modern, "state of the art" working environment
Flexible working hours
Regular opportunities for further training
30 days vacation
Own company restaurant with subsidies
Free drinks such as coffee, tea and water
Job ticket or parking space for bicycle or car
An international team in an international corporate environment
A collegial environment with many opportunities for activities
It´s in our blood

We live diversity and stand for equal opportunities as an employer! We therefore look forward to receiving your application - regardless of age, gender, origin, sexual orientation, and religion.


Do you have any questions? Then get in touch with your contact person.


Mrs. Dorothee Schaupp

Octapharma Biopharmaceuticals GmbH

Im Neuenheimer Feld 590, 69120 Heidelberg

Tel: +49 (0)6221 – 546


Want to find out more about us?


Visit our website Octapharma Career and follow us daily on LinkedIn.


About Octapharma
Octapharma is one of the largest human protein manufacturers in the world, developing and producing human proteins from human plasma and human cell lines. We employ more than 11,000 people worldwide to support the treatment of patients in 120 countries with products across three therapeutic areas: Immunotherapy, Haematology and Critical Care. With seven R&D sites and five state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities in Austria, France, Germany, and Sweden, Octapharma also operates over 195 plasma donation centres across Europe and the US. With four decades of experience, we are committed to advancing patient care worldwide.
