ImageImage
Bioinformatician/ Data Scientist (f/m/x)
102834

Image
Full time
39 hrs./week
Image
Tübingen
At Helmholtz Munich, we develop groundbreaking solutions for a healthier society in a rapidly changing world. We believe that diverse perspectives drive innovation. Through strong partnerships, we accelerate the transfer of new ideas from the lab to real-life applications, improving lives.

The primary research goal of the Institute of Diabetes Research and Metabolic Diseases (IDM) is the individualized prediction of diabetes risk and diabetes prevention and its personalized therapy. The institute is located in Tübingen.

At IDM and the German Center for Diabetes Research (DZD e. V.), located in Tübingen, we are seeking a Bioinformatician / Data Scientist (f/m/x).

The main research focus is on bioinformatic analysis in the context of clinical studies. The topics include organ (brain, liver, heart, pancreas, fat cell, kidney) and organ crosstalk analyses and data from imaging processes, primarily human data based on clinical research. One focus in particular is the establishment of these approaches for the valid characterization of sub-phenotypes in prediabetes. The individual working groups of the IDM should be supported in statistical and data-analytical questions. The place of work is in the Prevention department (Head: Prof. Dr. med. Andreas Birkenfeld). The position provides access to unique clinical data. Recent major findings are the description of sub-phenotypes in Prediabetes, which led to new clinical studies, and we reported mechanisms of remission in prediabetes.

Depending on the expertise of the applicant, we will evaluate individual structures for the integration in the IDM.


Your tasks
Statistical analysis of clinical data
Development of analysis pipelines for the research groups
Support in grant writing
Support for scientific publications
Your profile
BSc with a focus in Bioinformatics or related
Detailed knowledge of programming languages, especially Python and R
Experience in statistical/biostatistical analysis
Excellent ability to act and communicate both independently and in a team-oriented manner
Good command of the English language
If you fulfill all the requirements, you may be eligible for a salary grade of up to E 10. Social benefits are based on the Collective Wage Agreement for Public-Sector Employees (TVöD). The position has an (initial) fixed term of 2 years but may be extended under certain circumstances.


Managing Director Mike Frieser:
„We believe that diversity is the key to groundbreaking research and innovative solutions. Our flexible working models and remote options create a supportive environment for balancing work and family life. For us, contributing to a healthier society in such an inspiring workplace is truly meaningful.“

Get to know us

Benefits

Scientific Resources
State-of-the-art infrastructure and Core Facilities

International Staff Service
Support with the relocation and integration process in Germany

Career Development
Postdoc program, scientific training & career center with tailored offers

Recreation
30 days annual leave, flexi days, plus public holidays

Retirement Provision
Company pension plan

Health Promotion
Sports, company doctor, mental health initiatives
Image
Interested in applying?
If you have any questions, feel free to contact Prof. Dr. Hubert Preissl, hubert.preissl@helmholtz-munich.de, who will be happy to help.
Our recruiting is decentralized - your application will be reviewed directly by the specialist department in which you could work in the future.
More information about our application process

Please send your application only via our online application tool and with the following documents:
CV
Cover letter
Contact details for at least two referees
Degrees/Diplomas/Certificates
References from recent employers
23.01.2026
If you have obtained a university degree abroad, we will require further documents from you regarding the comparability of your degree. Please request the Statement of Comparability for Foreign Higher Education Qualifications as early as possible.

We are committed to promoting a culture of diversity and welcome applications from talented people regardless of gender, cultural background, nationality, ethnicity, sexual identity, physical abilities, religion or age. Qualified applicants with physical disabilities will be given preference.

Learn more about diversity at Helmholtz Munich

Image
Our commitment
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Helmholtz Munich
Deutsches Forschungszentrum für Gesundheit und Umwelt (GmbH)
Institute for Diabetes Research and Metabolic Diseases
Otfried Müller Strasse 10
72076 Tübingen
Image
Image
Image
Image
back to job list Online application